sun-baked earth due to pradesh northern
india here the limits of one monsoon
allow farmers just one annual crop the
only option for the rest fear was going
to the city in search of work or finding
a way to pay for expensive polluting
diesel plants for irrigation as there's
always water near the surface Amitabha
sedan G of International Development
enterprises IDE India is on his way to
the village of savvy higher 30
kilometers outside Lucknow one copy this
people commit suicide
because they got so much they take loan
from the money local moneylenders the
commander Prasad and that lot of sui
said why farmers didn't weather
headlines in the newspaper water here
lies seven meters below the surface and
thanks to this innovation even the
poorest farmers can now reach it by
walking I saw people irrigating for the
hand pump and because it's very
difficult operators hand they were using
the leg muscles to operate a hand pump
and that is ID I got the idea translated
into the treadle pump designed to be
operated with the leg muscles and more
crucially simple and cheap to maintain
this habit boon cylinder pump which
works but this is what were put in the
plastic pocket this needs to be replaced
once in a year and this cost them around
20 cents he was conditioned to us once
the year they'll be replaced this part
apart from this there is no other
maintenance Mohammed shibir bought at
pump six years ago and now grows three
crops a year instead of one and with the
proceeds he's now building a new house
I've got big crops my life's much better
compared to before the treadle pump I'm
very happy now poem Singh is travelling
to the village of Mirza poor close to
the Nepalese border where the water
table is high enough for treadle pumps
to act
and provide water for the fertile Terai
plains the first step is to dig a
borehole then a plastic tube with holes
cut out of it is inserted to keep the
well open and this acts as a filter
there's a lotta lofts and the wound
inside this pipe the pump is attached to
the top a single pump can be dismantled
easily and used on several different
bore holes making irrigation much easier
than traditional method I save money
because I used to hide the diesel pump
for 80 rupees per hour
now I can irrigate whenever I like
because I can operate this myself
now I'm independent during the dry
months land irrigated by a farmer who
can walk on water really stands out
there using a green patch of land where
the farmer who has a turtle pump he is
taking one more crop where is the field
all around it are all lying fellow so
the farmers who do not have a turtle
pump their fields are lying
nearly 700,000 pumps have been installed
to date each one generating wealth for a
farmer a reseller and an installer the
widespread acceptance would not have
been possible without promotion and in a
nation of cinema lovers IDE India has
hit upon a novel idea of using movies to
get the message across
back in Savi hire the Sun is going down
and as farmers finished the day's work
the movie starts to roll first an ad for
the pumps then the main feature credits
for the treadle pump have some way to
roll for a while the water table isn't
always high enough in the right location
this simple idea is already changing
hundreds of thousands of lives and now
families don't need to migrate for work
children are able to stay in school